The pursuit of efficiency drives us into opposing corners.  
Why can't we focus on what unites us? [Read more...](https://blog.zinzen.me/2021/11/05/Effectiveness-is-long-term-efficiency.html)   

In the previous ['collaboration is competition'](https://blog.zinzen.me/2021/10/01/Collaboration-is-competition.html) I shared that inside or outside matters. Identity matters. Dividing the world in left or right is a harmful simplification of a complex reality that will keep us arguing forever. We should focus on what unites us. Why can't we? 🤔

Our lives are driven by markets. People - and increasingly machines made by people - make bets in these markets. Calculated bets. Invest when you view the ability to execute (for a range of probable futures) differently than the rest of the world. The longer the time horizon, the more uncertainty. This pushes risk-averse agents to optimize for ever-shorter time spans. As long as it pays to [switch positions faster](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/11/private-microwave-networks-financial-hft/), go bigger and integrate more, we'll do it. The cost of future reorganizations is factored out - as is the future cost of human suffering. It's not a popular opinion, but slot machines, investors and for-profit board rooms are quite similar in some aspects. Some. Shorter time spans are rewarded. It's also simple: grow and standardize. Optimize for options we can see. Real risk is invisible. It is not calculable - by definition. So exclude it. Preparing for the unknown looks glaringly inefficient to investors. Cut that fat and make some money! Don't be dreamy. Visions need to be supported by facts or they're just window dressing. Or are they?

It's time to break away from the proven formula of industrialization we've become addicted to. 😱 Cold turkey 😱. Profit orientation is good - but not good enough. It sounds naive - but to go beyond what we have today - sustained "unprofitable" investments towards a well-defined purpose are needed. Are you still there? ... :) Real value is found by wandering into the unknown with determination and curiosity. Let's embrace what we can't predict. Let's be true to human nature. Let's explore and break boundaries. Let's work together and bet on each other. Let's optimize people over profit - whatever the cost. Put human needs at the top and don't close our eyes for convenience. Period. All the rest is just consequence. Then - and only then - will be the appropriate time to figure out how to make for-purpose companies sustainable. Value precedes vitality. Experimentation precedes experience. We'll stop outsourcing innovation to the competitive market. We'll share patents to further common purposes. We'll stop leaving a mess of externalities for non-profits to drown in. Build innovation into the fabric of society and you get it all! 

ZinZen® doesn't have all the facts - but we're doing it. We don't have the maps - but we're finding a path.  
ZinZen® aims to catalyze individual purpose. Through individual purpose - we'll support human purpose.  
Expect surprising progress 📈😮 towards purpose - every quarter.

Have an idea to improve ZinZen®?  
Please [contact us](https://zinzen.me/contact.html).